---
layout: post
title: Past Continuous
categories: [English]
tags: [Grammar]
lang: en

---

## Grammar
You can say that something happened (past simple) in the middle of something else (past continuous):

Matt *phoned* while we were having dinner.

It was raining when I *got* up. 

I *saw* you in the park yesterday. You were sitting on the grass and reading a book.

I *hurt* my back while I was working in the garden. 



But we use the past simple to say that one thing happened aft er another:

I was walking along the road when I saw Dan. So I *stopped*, and we *talked* for a while.

## Compare:
 When Karen arrived, we were having
dinner. (= we had already started before 
she arrived)

 When Karen arrived, we had dinner. 
(= Karen arrived, and then we had 
dinner not finished)

## Abnormal Continuous Verbs:
Some verbs (for example, know and like) are not normally used in this way. We don’t say ‘I am knowing’, 
‘they are liking’. We say ‘I know’, ‘they like’.

The following verbs are not normally used in the present continuous: 

like want need prefer
know realise understand recognise
believe suppose remember mean
belong fit contain consist seem

I’m hungry. I *want* something to eat. (not I’m wanting)

Do you *understand* what I mean?

Anna doesn’t *seem* very happy right now.

## Exercises
Complete the sentences. Choose from:
  
1. Today Helen is wearing a skirt. Yesterday she was wearing trousers.

2. ‘What did he say?’ ‘I don’t know. I *wasn’t listening*.’

3. We *were sitting* at the back of the theatre. We couldn’t hear very well.

4. This time last year Steve *was working* on a farm. 

5. They didn’t see me. They *weren’t looking* in my direction.

6. The weather was bad. It was very cold and it *was snowing*.

7. I saw you in your car. Where *were you going*?

8. I saw Kate a few minutes ago. She *was looking* for you.

I *saw* (see) Sue in town yesterday, but
she __*didn't see*__ (not/see) me. 
She *was looking* (look) the other way.